---
title: 'Adafruit IoT Monthly: Ocean Sensing, Open-Source Bluetooth Speaker, and more!'
url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/notebook/2025/08/11/iot-monthly/
date: '2025-08-11'
author: ''
feed_url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/feed
---
IoT Projects Rain Sensing Umbrella Stand A compact sized umbrella stand that lights up to warn you of incoming rainstorms. - Adafruit Learning System Using ESP-NOW with CircuitPython ESP-NOW is a connectionless communication protocol developed by Espressif that allows ESP32/ESP8266 devices to communicate directly with each other without needing a WiFi router or access point. It’s great for props, sensor-networks, remote controls, and mesh communications. Instead of spending spin-up and development time to see if ESP-NOW is the right fit for a project you’re working on, CircuitPython exposes an ESP-Now library that makes getting started super easy. - Adafruit Learning System Ocean Sensor An open-source buoy that monitors turbidity off the coast of Maui, Hawaii. The design is incredibly low-cost and uses an IMU sensor to read ocean waves. To do this, the author used ChatGPT to develop an Edge Impulse model for identifying wave height. Instructables IoT News and More! Ikea Relaunches Entire Smart Home Product Line Ikea is re-launching its smart home product line. Smart devices will use the Matter-Over-Thread standard instead of Zigbee. The smart audio product line is also re-launching with inexpensive Bluetooth and Spotify, rather than Sonos. - The Verge Belkin Bricks Wemo Smart Plugs Belkin is ending support for Wemo smart plugs in 2026. The plugs will not be controllable via the Wemo app or the Internet. While Belkin is also offering a partial refund for this product line, I [the author of this newsletter] feel for the many users who have invested in these plugs for their home. I am not sure if a partial refund is “fair compensation” for effectively bricking a product that’s physically installed in a home unless the partial refund can cover a replacement for its functionality. Belkin Support Espressif RainMaker MCP Server ESP RainMaker now supports the Model Context Protocol (MCP), enabling natural language interactions with your IoT devices via tools like Claude, Cursor, Gemini CLI, Windsurf, etc. - Espressif Developer Portal Insights on Teufel’s Open-Source Speaker The MYND speaker by Teufel Audio is a portable speaker that “can be rebuilt from publicly available data”. The industrial designer and electrical engineer responsible for this project discuss their design ethos on the Teufel blog. - Teufel Blog
