---
title: 'Adafruit IoT Monthly: WiFi Tamagotchis, Ultra-Low Power Modes, and more!'
url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/notebook/2026/01/28/iot-monthly/
date: '2026-01-28'
author: ''
feed_url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/feed
---
IoT Projects Acid Rain Detection This project predicts “the chances of acid rain before it occurs by monitoring SO₂, NO₂, humidity, and temperature”. To do this, it reads from a set of sensors and uses an algorithm to calculate an “Acid Rain Risk Score”. - HackADay ESP-DASH: On-Device Web Dashboard This open-source library includes charts, display cards, interactive buttons and many more components to create a perfect dashboard which is accessible locally via your IoT device’s IP. ESP-DASH does not require any kind of internet connection, everything is stored locally. - Adafruit Blog TamaFi: Tamagotchi-like WiFi Hunter Keep this pocket monster happy, healthy and well fed with WiFi signals. This is version two from CifterTech. The goal was to have an updated version of the classic Tamagotchi that feels more alive by acting on its own. They already have more ideas for the next version, so stay tuned. - Adafruit Blog eInk Literature Quotes Clock A clock that always shows quotes from a book to reference the passage of time. The quotes are fetched from Project Gutenberg and displayed on an eInk display. - Adafruit Learning System “Freeing” the QingPing Air Quality Monitor 2 Releasing a QingPing sensor from Xiaomi’s IoT ecoystem so it can be used on your home server/system. - HackADay Quote Receipts A thermal receipt printer modified to log and store silly quotes. This is a very fun weekend project. - watch the build video here . - theodore As Seen on Show & Tell: Ultra-Low-Power WipperSnapper & E-Paper Camera Frame From the weekly Adafruit Show & Tell! Brent stopped by to show-off ultra-low-power feature he’s adding to Adafruit WipperSnapper, then it was followed by an an e-paper camera mashup that captures, dithers, and displays photos as a magnetic frame - YouTube IoT News and More! Memory-driven Price Increases for Raspberry Pi Due to unprecedented and continued rise in cost of DDR4 memory, Raspberry Pi recently announced price increases to some of their Raspberry Pi 4 and 5 products.  - Raspberry Pi Autonomously navigating the real world: lessons from the PG&E outage In December, a utilities outage cut power to one-third of San Francisco. Waymo’s engineering blog details the unique challenge of this situation for self-driving vehicles.  - Waymo Espressif Systems at CES: ESP32-E22 Wi-Fi 6E SoC and ESP32-H21 BLE MCU Espressif showcased two of its upcoming products at CES 2026, the ESP32-E22 for WiFi 6E and the ESP32-H21 for battery powered Bluetooth devices.  - cnx-software Bose is open-sourcing its old smart speakers instead of bricking them This is a great step forward for corporations looking to kill support for cloud-enabled products! Bose is open-sourcing the API documentation for these cloud-powered speakers prior to discontinuing support. - The Verge
