---
title: WipperSnapper Hardware Catalog
url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/changelog/2026/02/06/wippersnapper-hardware-catalog/
date: '2026-02-06'
author: ''
feed_url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/feed
---
❄️ Deep winter greetings from the Adafruit IO team! ❄️ Have you ever thought to yourself… “I’d like to use WipperSnapper for my next project, but I’m not sure what hardware I can use!” If so, we’ve got just the thing for you! Introducing the… Works with WipperSnapper WipperSnapper, Adafruit IO’s no-code embedded and IoT project creation system, now supports so many popular devices (34) and components (134) it’s getting hard to think of a project you can’t put together with it. So we created a new page, “Works with WipperSnapper” , to make it easy to plan your no-code projects and prototypes. I’ll share a few of the cool features we packed into it. It’s a Public Page No account creation or login is required to browse through the catalog of WipperSnapper-compatible hardware. Confidently share that link with your friends! Filters There’s a lot of hardware here already, and the list will only grow. We added a filters menu to give a broad sense of what is available, and quickly pare down the copious results. Currently, you can filter by: hardware categories, so you can see just devices , or just the components they control sensor packages, if you’ve got specific use cases in mind already hardware manufacturers , if you’ve got a favorite vendor you want to prioritize Order by What’s Interesting Also in the filters menu is the “Order By” section. Maybe you need some inspiration? Sort by “Most Popular” and ride the hype wave. Or maybe you’re already an avid WipperSnapper yourself? Sort by “Newest” to see what’s been added lately. Search for Specifics There’s always that old standby: search ! Type in exactly what you’re after and see what comes up. We’ve tried to index hardware across many dimensions, so if you type in “light” you’ll find every component with a light sensor in it, as well as any devices with light sensors build in. Here’s a quick example. After typing in “feather display” we see a handful of results related to our popular Feather line of tiny-yet-mighty devices. Each item is either a Feather with a display built-in, or it’s a display component that’s frequently used with Feather boards. Pretty slick, right? What’s Built-in? Many devices come with components and sensors built-in. We wanted to share all that good stuff on this page, too. Simply touch or hover your mouse over the little blue eyeball and the built-in items will appear! Here’s the ever-popular Adafruit Funhouse, showing off its impressive collection of ready-to-go silicon. As you can see, the Funhouse is one device with a dozen components, making it a great option for getting started with WipperSnapper! As always, if you have any suggestions or bugs to report about the new pages, please let us know in the forums .
