---
title: 'Adafruit IoT Monthly: Accidental Antennas, Hardware Catalog, and more!'
url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/notebook/2026/02/24/iot-monthly/
date: '2026-02-24'
author: ''
feed_url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/feed
---
IoT Projects Accidental Antenna Design To most engineers, antenna design is “one of those witchcrafts you either know how to do, or you just don’t”. Janne’s research lets a cluster of Nvidia B200 GPUs brute-force antenna designs for manufacturing, the results are pretty surprising. - somethingfromnothing ePaper Camera Snap lo-fi pictures and transmit them over WiFi to your ePaper photo frame! - Adafruit Learning System OpenClaw on Raspberry Pi An experiment for giving an LLM agent full control over a Raspberry Pi and letting it interact with the physical world using peripherals such as a TFT display, sensors, and a USB camera. - Adafruit Learning System Analog Clock with NTP Time This project modifies an analog clock (the ones with hour and minute hands) to connect to a network time server, allowing it to display incredibly accurate time. - GitHub Hacking the Adafruit IO Library Our IoT Service, Adafruit IO , recently added a new API for grabbing air quality data from Open-Meteo (for international users) and AirNow (for US users). Danak hacks apart the CircuitPython library to add support for this new API. - Adafruit Learning System IoT News and More! WipperSnapper Hardware Catalog: “Works with WipperSnapper” If you’ve ever thought to yourself, “I’d like to try out Adafruit’s no-code WipperSnapper firmware for my next project, but I’m not sure what hardware I can use!”, we’ve got just the thing for you! - Adafruit IO Blog My smart sleep mask broadcasts users’ brainwaves to an open MQTT broker Aimilios Hatzistamou recently got a smart sleep mask from Kickstarter. What was not expected was the ability to read strangers’ brainwaves and send them electric impulses in their sleep. - Adafruit Blog
