---
title: 'Adafruit IoT Monthly: ESP-Claw, License-Free IoT Spectrum, and more!'
url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/notebook/2026/05/04/iot-monthly/
date: '2026-05-04'
author: ''
feed_url: https://io.adafruit.com/blog/feed
---
IoT Projects Focus Saver Distracted by the background noise of their phone, this project helped AahanSharma stay focused by minimizing distractions. This device silences their phone and only alerts them when an important email arrives. While the Brick is a commercially available equivalent of this project, it lacks a display (which I find useful). - Adafruit Blog ESP-Claw There’s been plenty of OpenClaw projects for the ESP32, but this one is officially from Espressif Systems. The only thing to note is the extremely strict requirement (I learned of when I tried to get around it) for 8MB flash and 8MB PSRAM, which may limit its use for lots of ESP32-x variants. - ESP-Claw A Website, hosted on an ESP32 The HelloEsp website is hosted on an ESP32 chip with 520KB of RAM instead of a traditional web server. Every aspect of the website is serviced by the ESP32 microcontroller. - HELLOESP ESPectre - Detecting Human Movement The Espectre project uses WiFi spectral analysis (CSI) to detect human movement. Unlike PIR sensors or cameras, Espectre can detect humans through walls and in the dark. This project ported Espectre to Arduino, to use it as a standalone component without needing a Home Assistant system. - Adafruit Learning System Using a Raspberry Pi as a Router Did the recent FCC rulings worry you about buying networking hardware? Follow this guide to use a Raspberry Pi as a router. - Adafruit Learning System ESP-NOW Walkie Talkies Using the ESP-NOW wireless communication protocol to send and receive audio data, this project created a pair of walkie talkies. - Adafruit Learning System IoT News and More! The New License-Free IoT Spectrum: In-Depth Investigation into NR+ NR+ is a new license-free wireless standard that unlocks dedicated global spectrum for IoT. Psychogenic Technologies has the most in-depth investigation into this standard on the Internet. This is the type of technical content I love writing about - a 1.3 hour video that covers every aspect of this new standard, from the specification to building applications with it. - Psychogenic Technologies Lion: A Self-Hostable IoT Server for Zephyr Devices Lion is a self-hosted IoT backend. It’s open source, supports CoAP + DTLS, and provides a sensible way to do OTA firmware updates. This blog entry is the “engineering story” of why specific design decisions were made. - CircuitDojo Blog
